Hello everyone.
In this lesson we are going to push our website up onto the Web.
So by the end of this video you will have a U.R.L. that you can share with your friends family and colleagues.
Before we push our files up there's a few changes I want to make first.
So if you find your travel site folder or your project folder go into the app folder and we don't actually
need the about on each temple or the contact HMO.
We only needed these multiple HMO files as a test to make sure that our build process could handle multiple
files.
But we really only have the one home page so I'm going to delete these two files OK and then back up
a folder we named our public folder dist dist is a very popular name.
However since we are using the github pages service they require that the public folder be named docs
D O C S most other services besides get up pages let you choose whatever you want to name this folder.
But in this case we do need to play by GitHub rules.
So do this with me right now.
I want you to manually delete the entire dist folder ok.
And then we need to go into our web pack config file and tell it to output to DOCS instead of dist.
So in web packed config we just need to replace the word dist with docs in two locations.
So first is in our run after compile class.
So on this line of code we are copying our images from app to decide.
So right here change Dawe to instead be docs D O C S OK.
And then the one other change down towards the bottom within our if current task equals build.
If we scroll down a bit we are looking for config dot output within output.
Here we see path.
And at the end here we see dist.
So just change this to DoCS.
OK.
Now let's save this file and run a fresh build process.
So in the command line just run NPM run build
so if we check our folder cool we have app and instead of dist now we have docs again.
Usually you can name this whatever you want it just so happens that the github pages service requires
this name.
Cool.
At this point let's use GID to push up our changes first.
Let's take care of our branches.
We are currently on the build process branch.
We've completed our work here.
So let's add all of our changes to the staging area get add dash uppercase a OK.
Then let's commit our changes get commit dash lowercase m to provide a message quotes.
I will just say completed our build process configuration closing quote.
Presenter OK now that we've committed those changes we can switch back over to the master branch because
we want to merge build process in the master so get check out master OK.
And then to merge the other branch in we just say yep merge the name of the branch build dash process.
Cool so now our master branch is good to go let's go ahead and push this up to get hub so get push origin
master as soon as your push completes.
Now I want you to go to GitHub dot com in your web browser navigate to the overview screen for the current
repo that you're working with.
For me it's travel dash site but it could be something different for you but whichever repo you just
pushed too.
Now we just need to enable one setting and our Web site will be ready up on the web from this overview
screen we need to click on settings from this main setting screen.
We want to scroll down and in the main column we're looking for a feature named GitHub pages at the
time of this recording it's about three quarters of the way down the page GitHub pages.
Here we see a source option and a dropdown to select different options.
You just want to click on this and change it to the option that says master branch slash docs folder.
So the subtext says use only the docs folder forget hub pages.
That's exactly what we want right.
The docs folder is our public folder.
Ok.
Once I selected that you can see it sort of reloaded the page but if you scroll back down to where the
github pages section is you will now find a link to your Web site.
So it's typically going to be your user name and then get hub dot IO and then the name of your repo
so obviously your link will be different than mine.
But let's go ahead and open this up in a new tab awesome.
This is our website live on the web.
You can share this U.R.L. with your friends and family.
Now if you don't see your Web site and you instead see a GitHub forum for error screen don't panic.
Oftentimes GitHub can take 10 to 20 minutes for your Web site to show up.
I just got lucky this time.
If you are receiving the forum for error at the very end of your address you can try manually typing
index dot HDMI.
Sometimes that will allow you to view your site but you should not need to do this because then you're
U.R.L. look sloppy.
So the other trick to get your website working immediately is just to perform another commit pushing
a new commit will trigger GitHub to redeploy your files and often oftentimes that will get rid of the
initial 10 to 20 minute delay for your you or else to start working.
I'll walk through that with you right now.
So just for a minor change just to have something to push.
Let's imagine we don't want the period after this.
Your clarity.
So within our HD PML file in the app folder towards the top.
For me it's around line number forty seven.
But I will remove that period after your clarity.
Save that let's run NPM run build.
So our public docs folder is updated so NPM run build OK.
Then let's add all of our changes get add dash uppercase a get commit with a new message.
Changed primary headline closing quote.
And then we just push that back up to get up.
So get push origin master OK.
And then if I try to visit my U.R.L. again you can see it might take GitHub 10 to 30 seconds for that
change to go through but if I refresh again could we see that period is gone.
So hopefully after you pushed your second commit your GitHub pages U.R.L. begins to work and you can
even go purchase a real dot com domain and use that for your Web site.
You would just tell your domain company to point towards the github pages servers so GitHub pages is
great.
It's completely free.
It's easy to use.
They don't add any weird advertisements to our website.
It's great.
However in my opinion there is a service that is even 10 times better than GitHub pages and that service
is named net lo fi.
We will learn what makes net LA fi so great in our very next lesson but I don't want to completely steal
the thunder of you having a U.R.L. that you can now share with your friends family and colleagues.
So enjoy your GitHub pages link.
You have pushed a website up onto the Web.
Congratulations.
But I must say that now that I'm aware that net LA fi exists I can't see myself ever using GitHub pages
again.
There's nothing wrong with GitHub pages.
It's just that net Lafite has a few features that are incredible and they offer these features even
on their completely free plans.
You don't even need to enter a credit card.
Now I am not affiliated with net LA fi in any way shape or form.
It's just one of the coolest products and services that I've seen in a long time.
Not to get you a bit excited to jump into the next lesson on net low fi.
We are going to set things up so that our build process is completely automated.
You won't even need a disk or docs folder on your personal computer.
You can just work with the source code in your app folder and then anytime you push your changes up
net lo fi will run our build process for us right and generate the public folder on its own.
And once that's set up we are also going to learn about cloud functions or a W S lambda functions essentially
even though we are just working with a static HDL front end based Web site.
Well net lo fi makes it super easy to add cloud functions where you could perform server side tasks.
Trust me this is amazing.
I'm a huge fan of net lo fi and in our next lesson we are going to open up the door to all of these
possibilities.
Let's keep our momentum rolling and I will see you in the next lesson.